What is machine learning?
I kinda start already showing you examples
of machine learning, deep learning,
but I haven't even explained
what that actually is.
So, for that,
I will be using kinda by example.
Show you how we can differentiate
between statistics,
machine learning,
deep learning, and even AI.
So let's start with just statistics,
what is statistics?
And let's start with
some practical problem,
let's say I'm a shoemaker in 19th century.
And have no idea about machine learning
distributions and everything else.
But I want to create really good shoes and
they know I'm creating them.
But I don't know what's the optimal size
I should use to basically
provide to my customers.
And let's say I want to
massively produce them, right?
And hope that it will satisfy the needs
of my customers, so what I can do?
I can just go to 100 random strangers,
right?
And ask them what shoe size do they have,
let's say 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, I don't know.
And for instance, some people say,
5 people say they have size 8.
More people will say that they have
size 9, and so on and so forth, so
I can almost plot of this
distribution of sizes, right?
And statistics allows me to
just get those 100 numbers and
find the average, for
instance, or also mean.
Is the same thing which
is just a summation
of all of those numbers divided by number
of people participated in my survey.
So, I just simply can say that,
if I go with the mean size,
which in my case probably
going to be number 11,
I will satisfy the majority, right?
And probably people with size 8 and 9,
not gonna be satisfied with big shoes
with size 11, and 12 and 13 will not fit.
But still,
at least big chunk of people will, well,
get their shoes the right size.
So statistics allows us to find some basic
information about the distributions,
right?
And then statistics kinda
evaluated into machine learning,
machine learning, the way how I see it,
it mostly deals with the distributions.
So back to our shoe size example, that
looks almost like a normal distribution.
If you not familiar with
the normal distributions or
Gaussian distributions, or
bell curve distribution.
It's called this because it is
kinda look like a bell curve.
It is symmetric, I'm just drawing it,
it's not that symmetrical,
and it can be easily
described by two numbers.
The kinda mean value,
where we have this peak and
standard deviation,
think about it like the width of
the distribution in the middle.
So, machine learning, pretty much
what it's doing all the time is
trying to find
the corresponding distribution.
And find the values which can
describe this distribution and
this process called fitting.
So machine learning is pretty
good with taking a lot of
practical observations, right?
Different measurements and
trying to find those distributions and
corresponding values which can
describe this distribution.
And people been doing that for,
not centuries, well,
I can probably say centuries.
And the thing is, at this point
you don't need a lot of computer.
Majority of those operations
are requiring just summation,
division multiplication, but
all of that can be done by hands.